Welcome everyone and welcome. This is the one and again beautiful moment in our lives. Definitely
we have wonderful beautiful lives in our lives, many times that we can highlight. We will be
thinking and reflecting in our lives. But truly this is one of the beautiful moments in our life.
We are glorifying our inner beautiful nature. We follow the footsteps of the great
Buddhist teacher Bodashakamuni and reflecting his teaching. His teaching is not teaching
something the way he's talking something story of the outer space or in the universe or galaxy.
He's talking true nature of our own self, how we should glorify our self, how we should
make ourselves beautiful life, meaningful life, no matter what however we are staying on this earth
,
we make something meaningful, tangible. So we live this world with happy, with joys,
with kind of feel happy, with reward and not leave this world with empty hands, disappointment,
and kind of in regretful. We live with glorious competence. To do that we are reflecting to our
inner nature, great beautiful quality, what we all inherited. What great teacher Bodashakamuni
talked
about the loving kindness, compassion, joy, happy, peaceful, how to revolve that nature, how to
make
that to our self, make beautiful ourselves and to benefit to the other beings. So that's why I'm
talking this one this will be the one beautiful again moment in our life. We're touching to our
own true nature, true being, and true rich in the scholars. And therefore again we should feel
happy
and joy. Joy and happy, this is the one again as he said many times, beautiful time,
and mighty grateful joy and appreciation. We should bring up those thoughts. At the same time
we should combine that joy and appreciation with the body. As gracious teacher Bodashakamuni said
and all the master said of one voice have ignited loving kindness compared to all the sentiments
including our self. Thank you. We wish really what we're doing together. Not just only helping
our local life lead way to our own self, but really wish that made benefit to all the living
means. Everyone, many different levels, free from suffering, difficulty, trouble, bring more wisdom
,
more understanding, more respect and appreciation to each other. So the world will become more calm
and peace and happiness pleaser. So everyone sitting enjoyed that really wish these things.
And then that also combined with the Vedayana teaching. Vedayana teaching always say that
everything is the enlightenment status. This teaching what we're going to follow is the teaching
of the Vedayana. Of course it's the Buddha's teaching, but it is the Vedayana teaching.
So reflecting everything as a purity state, kind of bringing up that, opening that door. Why we don
't
see this purity right now? Because due to the cataracts of our duality, it's beloved of true
reality, so it's too natural as it is. But at least we opened that door. So cataracts of the dual
ity
happen in bed. We're going to free, remove that. Momentally remove that cataracts of the duality.
That moment we began to see the glories of the beauty of the nature of the out and in everything
in that state. So also kind of lining up ourselves to that situation, not completely close the door
and kind of stay in the dark corners. We should not stay there all the time. And of course the
sentient beings always, we have so many unsure and kind of that unknowing situation that really we
don't have anything kind of better understate. If we count the folks of our percentage, how many we
know? Maybe two, three percent we know. The resonating eight percent is the darkness. Completely
kind of like we don't really know any presumption, hope and expectation status. But reality level,
according to the teaching of the Buddha, everything is called beauty. Everything is so nice and
wonderful. That all have to open from our side. It's not going to come from outside to open that
door.
We have to open ourselves up. To do that is to be able to understand, is at least to open that door
,
kind of leaning toward, not completely closer with the duality as it is or the habit-dependent.
And then we can't enforce that duality with the kind of like not doing anything. That is then
mistakes to us. So therefore we should kind of distant and open those beautiful qualities.
And then we follow in the other teachings. At this time, during this one-week retreat, our
retreat will be known on power, as you all know. Power is the debate of all which means
transferring. Why do we want to transfer the consciousness? And that also means in the
Buddha's teaching, life is a continuation. It's not just one time we take this bird on this earth
and then finish. It's not just like finishing the kind of like butter lamb or the lamb
blow away by the wind and then it's gone. That's not the case. According to the Buddha's teaching,
life is continuing. When it started that, life is from the big endless times. And how long it will
go? Endless it will go. It is like journey of like continually as what is a continued journey.
That is consciousness. Consciousness is like light. Unstoppable. Undestoible
as light. Consciousness is. Nobody can destroy. Nobody can stop. Nobody can prevent it.
It is moving force. It moved from the big endless time until now or as we are. And when the wind
leave or when our body is finished or that expired or kind of like become kind of what's
called unstable or cannot uphold what we are. All elements are become old and they decline.
And then what is left? The body left behind. But according to the Buddha's teaching,
the consciousness continues. It is what continues. So it is just a rough example as like
consciousness
is immovable or sorry, unstoppable, indestructible light that will move continually from one place
to the places. In the present time, we are moving how we are moving our consciousness.
With the mercy of our karma. Mercy of our karma. Who created the karma is one's own self we created
.
That karma. Karma force become as perfect condition, perfect condition or perfect situation
that will activate it and that will carry on our consciousness. So we don't have any choice.
As I said, it is like in a way, mercy of our own karma deed. Our own deed that will move.
So the Doha practice, we will practice in Doha. What it does? It will make some directions.
Again, who's going to make that direction? Ultimately, we are going to do. Each of our
self make practicing Doha and make the direction of that. So it's not just a become karmic force,
carry way, will carries. We make the direction. We make the choice. We stand behind our
consciousness.
And we in a way recollect it.
Present time, the mostly sentient beings, when they pass away, there is no directions. According
to the teaching, it goes as I said, the mercy of the karma activates it will go wherever.
So the Poga is so important, so special. And who taught this? Again, the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, gave the teachings. When Buddha Shakyamuni reached enlightenment,
age 35, he gave continued teachings until age 81. So over 46 years, or 45 years,
that he continued to give the teachings. Those teachings are divided as according
in my teachings, in my schools of Tibetan Buddhism, nine yana teachings, nine different
teachings that Buddha gave. Why he gave many of those many teachings? Because of the
individual's motivation, their interest, their kind of like,
wishes, so Buddha gave the difference, their teachings. Therefore, according to the wish and
capability and suitable, each person Buddha made the choice of the teachings. They will
well lead the same goal, but according their capabilities. So those level, those called nine
yana teachings. All those teachings are teachings that are designed to discover our inner nature,
make the destination of our beautiful future destination of the next lives, or even up to
knives, life after lives. That really will make that. But the Poga teaching is one of the very
special teachings of the very yana teachings, very yana, which is the highest center or in it,
of course, you all know, most of you all know, a few of you may be a lot more familiar with that.
Very yana teaching is known as esoteric teaching of the Buddha, Buddha, Buddha gave that teachings.
And very yana teaching, what is the teaching? What do you say? If teaching says, for example,
like there are those nine yana teachings, but suppose maybe I call nine yana teaching roughly,
roughly that many of you already know, but how will the first one is known as
the shara kayana teachings, we, but shara kayana teaching and the second teaching is known as the
Parthi Buddha teachings. Most of the time, those teachings are the basic Buddhist school teachings,
you see, that two are shara kai, shara kai, and the Parthi Buddha, first Buddha teaching,
what will Buddha give? Teaching that which is in enlightenment age 35, he give for novel truth
teachings. Those all teachings are considered as these teachings of the shara kai, teachings
of the Parthi Buddha. And ever but more can be simplified, that means foundation teaching,
foundation teaching means foundation teaching of all Buddha's teachings. All nine yana teachings
are best upon those teachings. First Buddha teaching is the foundation teachings, and that
is also such as Theravada teachings, and the Sarva-sagavadaka teachings, all those are known as
deity teaching, and when you practice that foundation teaching practices, realize that
you know what you're going to achieve, known as ahadahut, the one who defeated the enemy.
What is that enemy? Enemy is ego clinging, enemy is obscurations, all the negative emotions
that defeated. So Buddha used the metaphor, the one who destroyed enemy, but according to Buddhism,
the true enemy is one's own ego clinging, one's own these negative emotions are really true
enemies. They're not just being enemy for a short time, but they be enemy or opponent, obstacle for
us from the biggest times. Now always they make a toggle to us. We don't notice, we don't know,
they're behind the scene making obstacles. In the old level, old enemies, they are very
contemporary,
maybe obstacles, not long-lasting enemy as ego clinging as negative emotions, but these ahadahas,
one who destroyed practicing of these basic Buddhist teaching, what he destroyed,
destroyed that long-lasting enemy of the ego and as well as negative emotion together.
Ego is the boss, negative emotions are ready to use, it's like entourage, entourage and all
joint together make the toggle to us from the biggest time. That's what they are known as enemy,
that's what Buddha used the metaphors. And then third level of the teaching is known as bodhisattva
yana. Another name of this is known as the Mahayana teachings. Bodhisattva yana teaching
can be divided, nor can be divided into two. Causal buddhyana teaching, result buddhyana teaching.
Causal buddhyana teaching is the alternate, formally known as Suttara Mahayana teachings.
Result Mahayana is known as formally the Vedayana teachings. Teaching, both are,
Veda is Suttara Mahayana, Veday is Suttara Mahayana, or both are Mahayana,
best upon all that pandeic teachings. Pandeic Buddha teaching, such as Theravada
or Sarva Isbad, known as Sarva Isbad, or Theravada teaching, formally now, morally. And it's not
just
modern, it's ancient, ancient name to Theravada. This is the foundation. Veda is Vedayana teaching,
Veda is the Mahayana, Suttara Mahayana teaching. According to new Mahayana teachings and to very
Buddhism, all is best upon all on the Theravada teaching and Sarva Isbad teachings. Sarva Isbad
is maybe another kind of need, terminology to you, many of you, but Sarva Isbad is known as,
in ancient time, when Buddha entered Mahaparin nirvana, after 100 years, above 100 years after
Buddha's Mahaparin nirvana, the old Buddhist schools of teachings, all were started kind of
making different schools, known as Theravada schools, and Sarva Isbad schools, and Mankwar Deva,
Parthin Deva, I mean with those you said, but Sarva Isbad and Theravada are Sanskrit world or
the Pali world. Well, so different schools emerged. In reality, these are all same teaching,
but different schools, teachings. So Sarva Isbad is kind of mainly, kind of become the part of the
Mahayana teachings, which is called Vinaya teaching, Sarva Isbad teachings. Theravada is now what
is
called modern time, southern Buddhist schools, Sri Lanka, and Burma, and in Thailand. And the Sarva
Isbad school is a northern Buddhist school, such as in Tibet, Mongolia, in China, and then I think
Japan, and all of Bhutan, and all those become the followers of the Sarva Isbad schools of Vinaya
teaching, or the basic Buddhist school teachings. So the Vaidyana teachings, the Mahayana teachings
are on the best of these teachings, all rooted on these teachings. So now, these are the Mahayana,
and then Mahayana, the Suttma Mahayana is Bodhisattva Mahayana, Bodhisattva Mahayana.
Above that, then all is Vaidyana teachings, so that means, above that, according to Nainas,
three of them, now I have listed three, and now the six is, six is all Vaidyana teachings. Those
are
known as, also, within the Vaidyana teachings, divided into two groups, known as out-tentra,
inner-tentras, and out-tentra is known as kriya-tentra, opa-tentra, yo-a-tentra, those are
Vaidyana practice teachings, those are known as out-tentras, and why is it known as out-tentra,
this, even though this Vaidyana practice teachings, this is more, kind of like, communicated and
associated with the way, world, where things are, kind of more connected to that, that, and
such as, cultural level, very perfectly clean, beautiful, vegetarian, and all those, just really,
like, as, like, in the world, the world, like, considering those are good, that's what they really
follow in that, that, and practicing, then meditating, visualizing, and reciting the mantra,
those are out-tentras. The inner-tentra is then, mainly not really focused on the conduct too much,
but more focused on the mind, mind, and activating the nature of the mind, and it's as, as I,
early I mentioned, and whenever you know, that everything is enlightened status, and more focus
on that status in, in light state, outward universe is enlightened, our inner mind is enlightened,
physical is enlightened, connecting to that with instruction, and meditating, and reciting mantra,
but the nature is the same, as long kindness, compassion, relaxed calm, and openness, and that is
what really practice, so this is called very inner teachings. A more practice is the inner-tentra
teachings. Of course, there is many others, but basically what we're going to learn is, I mean,
there's many poor, poor practices, but what we're going to more focus is the very inner teachings,
inner-tentra teachings. Now, inner-tentra teaching is about reaching enlightenment within these
single lifetimes. That is the leading teaching of the inner-tentras, which enlighten or become
Buddhahood within these lifetimes, using those instructions and techniques in what Buddha taught,
with the pull of devotion, pull of joy, courage, commitment, practice, and reaching the ultimate
goal within these lifetimes, within this lifetime. Somehow, if we couldn't succeed that, succeed
that
goal in this lifetime, then the great teacher, Buddha Chagamuni, taught these poor teachings,
so that we, poor teaching, may then be directed our consciousness, consciousness to the next our
favorable spaces, so that we can continually activate our practice, meditate, and engage in
life. That is the basic meaning of the poor practices. So this is the general understanding
of the poor practices.